DOCS-4473 Spring module bug fix (#388)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/spring/spring-module.adoc

> include::_attributes.adoc[]

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT ABOVE

= Working with the Spring Module
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]

endif::[]

> The Spring module allows Mule apps to make use of the Spring framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spring module allows Mule apps to use Spring Framework.
```
or "the Spring Framework Java framework"?

== Add Spring Module to Your Project

> In Anypoint Studio 7, Spring is provided in the default configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Anypoint Studio 7, Spring Framework is provided in the default configuration. 
```
Or is it the Spring module that is provided?

In *Mule Palette*, search for "Spring" and drag the Authorization Filter operation to the Studio canvas.

If you are coding a project using only XML, add the Spring module to your application from the palette, or add the following dependency in your `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.mule.modules</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-spring-module</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

> Mule automatically substitutes the latest version for the `RELEASE` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule runtime engine (Mule) automatically substitutes the latest version for the `RELEASE` keyword.
```

> Spring module 1.3.0 requires Mule Runtime 4.1.1 and later. You can find the dependencies for earlier versions in https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.modules/mule-spring-module/[Exchange] by selecting a version and clicking *Dependency Snippets*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spring module 1.3.0 requires Mule 4.1.1 and later. You can find the dependencies for earlier versions in https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.modules/mule-spring-module/[Exchange] by selecting a version and clicking *Dependency Snippets*. 
```

== Configure the Spring Module

> 

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT BELOW
No edits

. Add the following configuration:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:spring="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring"
      xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
      xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
      xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd

        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring/current/mule-spring.xsd">

    <spring:config name="springConfig" files="beans.xml" />

</mule>
----
+
. Put the `beans.xml` file in `src/main/resources`.
+
The Spring configuration must be valid. Here is an example beans.xml file:
+
[source,xml,linenums]

> ----

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT BELOW
No edits.

<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
    xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xmlns:jdbc="http://www.springframework.org/schema/jdbc"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
      http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-4.2.xsd
      http://www.springframework.org/schema/jdbc
      http://www.springframework.org/schema/jdbc/spring-jdbc-4.2.xsd
      http://www.springframework.org/schema/context
      http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-4.2.xsd
      http://www.springframework.org/schema/security
      http://www.springframework.org/schema/security/spring-security-4.2.xsd">
    <jdbc:embedded-database id="dataSource" type="DERBY">
        <jdbc:script location="classpath:db/sql/create-db.sql" />
        <jdbc:script location="classpath:db/sql/insert-data.sql" />
    </jdbc:embedded-database>

</beans>
----

> The beans files used with the Spring module must be exported, if not the application won't start. See xref:4.1@mule-runtime::how-to-export-resources.adoc[How to Export Resources]. 

Reviewer: Suggest active voice:
```suggestion
You must export the beans files used with the Spring module for the application to start. See xref:4.1@mule-runtime::how-to-export-resources.adoc[How to Export Resources]. 
```

If you are using Anypoint Studio 7.2 or later, you don't need to manually update the `mule-artifact.json` file. 

> Mule still needs a descriptor where the Spring beans are declared, so the embedded packager within Studio auto generates the descriptor with all the resources it picks up from the project. However, if you choose to declare the resources you need to export, then Studio packages only those resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Mule also needs a descriptor where the Spring beans are declared, the embedded packager within Studio automatically generates one with all the resources it picks up from the project. However, if you choose to declare the resources you need to export, then Studio packages only those resources.
```

The following example enables you to declare your `beans.xml` file in `mule-artifact.json`:

[source,example,linenums]
----
{
    "name": "MyApp",
    "minMuleVersion": "4.2.1",
    "classLoaderModelLoaderDescriptor": {
        "id": "mule",
        "attributes": {
            "exportedResources": [
                "/org/mule/myapp/beans.xml"
            ]
        }
    }
  }
}
----

== Spring Objects in Mule Components

> You can use Spring objects in Mule configuration components, for instance, to point to the Derby data source created with Spring beans:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Spring objects in Mule configuration components (for instance, to point to the Derby data source created with Spring beans), as follows:
```

> 

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT BELOW
No edits.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:db="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db"
      xmlns:spring="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring"
      xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
      xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
      xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring/current/mule-spring.xsd

        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db/current/mule-db.xsd">

    <spring:config name="springConfig" files="beans.xml" />

    <db:config name="derbyConfig" doc:name="Database Config"  >
        <db:derby-connection database="datasource" create="true" />
    </db:config>
</mule>
----

== Spring Properties Placeholders

> Properties defined by Spring properties placeholders cannot be used within the Mule app configuration, only in Spring configuration files. However, properties defined in Mule through `<configuration-properties/>` can be used within Spring configuration files.

Reviewer: active voice:
```suggestion
You cannot use the properties defined by Spring properties placeholders within your Mule app configuration; you can use them only in Spring configuration files. However, you can use properties defined in Mule through `<configuration-properties/>` within Spring configuration files.
```

== Limitations of Spring Objects

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding a transition narrative intro to the two list items.

* Spring objects cannot implement Mule API lifecycle methods.

> * Spring objects cannot be injected with Mule API services. The only service that can be used is the `org.mule.runtime.api.artifact.Registry`, which can be used to access any other service within the Mule API. This can be accomplished by using `@PostConstruct` over a method to initialize the object and retrieve the Mule API service.

Reviewer: Limit list items to one sentence, with additional detail following in a para below:
```suggestion
* Spring objects cannot be injected with Mule API services.
The only service that can be used is the `org.mule.runtime.api.artifact.Registry`, which can be used to access any other service within the Mule API. This can be accomplished by using `@PostConstruct` over a method to initialize the object and retrieve the Mule API service.
```

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT BELOW
Edits to narrative:

== Use Spring Security as a Security Manager

The Spring module supports the use of Spring security as a security manager in Mule apps.
You must define an authentication manager in the Spring configuration file:

[source,xml,linenums]

<ss:authentication-manager alias="authenticationManager">
ss:authentication-provider
<ss:user-service id="userService">
<ss:user name="admin" password="admin" authorities="ROLE_ADMIN" />
<ss:user name="joe" password="secret" authorities="ROLE_ADMIN" />
<ss:user name="anon" password="anon" authorities="ROLE_ANON" />
<ss:user name="user" password="password" authorities="ROLE_ANON" />
<ss:user name="ross" password="ross" authorities="ROLE_ANON" />
<ss:user name="marie" password="marie" authorities="ROLE_ANON" />
</ss:user-service>
</ss:authentication-provider>
</ss:authentication-manager>

</beans>
----

> IMPORTANT: When working with Spring Framework 5.x, if you are using plain text passwords, you need to prefix the password value with `{noop}`. For instance, in the previous example admin password would be `{noop}admin` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: If you use Spring Framework 5.x with plain text passwords, you must prefix the password value with `{noop}`. For example, the password `admin` password would be `{noop}admin` instead.
```

> You can define a Security Manager within a Mule app that makes use of the Spring Authentication Manager like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define a security manager within a Mule app that makes use of the Spring authentication manager like this:
```

Reviewer: HIDDEN
No edits.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule
  xmlns:spring="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring"
  xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
  xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
    http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-current.xsd
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd

    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring/current/mule-spring.xsd">

  <spring:config name="springConfig" files="beans.xml" />

  <spring:security-manager>
    <spring:delegate-security-provider 
      name="memory-provider" 
      delegate-ref="authenticationManager" />
  </spring:security-manager>

</mule>
----

[[spring_auth_filter]]
== Validate Authentication with the Spring Authorization Filter

> The Spring module adds support for a filter that fails if the authentication cannot be validated using the Mule Security Manager, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spring module adds support for a filter that fails if the authentication cannot be validated using the Mule Security Manager:
```

[source,xml,linenums]

> ----

Reviewer: HIDDEN
No edits.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule
  xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
  xmlns:db="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db"
  xmlns:spring="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring"
  xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
  xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
    http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-current.xsd
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core

    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/spring/current/mule-spring.xsd
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db/current/mule-db.xsd
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http
    http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd">

  <spring:config name="springConfig" files="beans.xml" />

  <spring:security-manager>
    <spring:delegate-security-provider 
      name="memory-provider" 
      delegate-ref="authenticationManager" />
  </spring:security-manager>

  <http:listener-config 
    name="HTTP_Listener_config" 
     doc:name="HTTP Listener config"  >
      <http:listener-connection 
        host="0.0.0.0" 
        port="9090" />
  </http:listener-config>

  <flow name="spring-exampleFlow"  >
    <http:listener 
      config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" 
      path="/" 
      doc:name="Listener"  />
    <http:basic-security-filter 
      realm="mule" />
      <spring:authorization-filter 
        requiredAuthorities="ROLE_ADMIN" />
  </flow>
</mule>
----

> The `http:basic-security-filter` tries to authenticate the user using basic authentication. If the request is authenticated successfully, Mule retrieves the username and use it in the Spring `authorization-filter` to search for that user and try to authorize the request against the authority ROLE_ADMIN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `http:basic-security-filter` tries to authenticate the user using basic authentication. If the request is authenticated successfully, Mule retrieves the username and uses it in the Spring `authorization-filter` to search for that user and to try to authorize the request against the authority ROLE_ADMIN.
```
